--- 
blog_post: true
guid: ddd20dc2-f3fb-428e-b17d-8a25c74f563b
title: Testing against the (Garbage Collection) Clock, or, Don't create your Test Cases as anonymous classes
filter: haml
created_at: 2006-09-22 10:43:00 +01:00
layout: blog
---
:textile
  I "wrote":/blog/2006-07-17-some-realisations-about-testing a while ago about how I'd started creating my test cases as anonymous classes.

  I continued this practice until I was slapped in the face by my own stoopidity yesterday.  We were seeing a problem where tests were failing individually but appearing to run fine in rake.

  "James":http://blog.floehopper.org was looking into it...

  <pre>
  James: it seems like the ones defined by Class.new(Test::Unit::TestCase) aren't always being found in the ObjectSpace
  James: but I can't quite work out why
  James: i'm tempted to name them all as defined classes
  Chris: oh ok
  Chris: go for it
  James: i'm pretty sure that works ok
  Chris: interesting
  James: only difference i can think of is that if the file is loaded twice you will create two instances of the anonymous class
  James: whereas with the named class it will just reopen same class
  Chris: why would that be a problem?
  James: but it doens't look like its being loaded twice anyway
  James: dunno
  James: its the only difference i can think of, but it doesn't explain anything
  James: can you think of any other differences
  Chris: so if you create named classes for the testcases in p_l_i_test does it then fail in rake?
  James: yup - and i've seen the problem in other tests where anonymous tests are defined
  James: so there are quite a few tests that haven't been running in rake
  Chris: bugger
  Chris: i think ben just explained the problem
  James: yeah?
  Chris: as the classes aren't assigned to constants they can be garbage collected
  Chris: oops
  James: aha
  Chris: no more anonymous test classes for christopher
  James: that explains - why they were in the ObjectSpace one minute and not the next
  </pre>

  Note that p_l_i_test mentioned above is just a shorthand for one of our tests that was failing individually but 'running' (or as we now know, not running) from rake.

  So, although you get a little added excitement to your testing ("Will this test class run before it gets garbage collected???"), it's probably a lot safer to not use anonymous classes when testing.

  James has just informed me that we gained about 230 tests in rake by naming all of our test cases...
